README.md, before:

# Kourier

**[This component is GA](https://github.com/knative/community/tree/main/mechanics/MATURITY-LEVELS.md)**

Kourier is an Ingress for [Knative Serving](https://knative.dev/). Kourier is a
lightweight alternative for the Istio ingress as its deployment consists only of
an Envoy proxy and a control plane for it.

Kourier is passing the knative serving e2e and conformance tests:
[Kourier Testgrid](https://testgrid.knative.dev/serving#kourier-stable).

- [**Getting started**](#getting-started)
- [**Features**](#features)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
- [**Development**](#development)
- [**License**](#license)

## Getting started

- Install Knative Serving, ideally without Istio:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/latest/download/serving-crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/latest/download/serving-core.yaml
```

- Then install Kourier:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/net-kourier/releases/latest/download/kourier.yaml
```

- Configure Knative Serving to use the proper "ingress.class":

```bash
kubectl patch configmap/config-network \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"ingress.class":"kourier.ingress.networking.knative.dev"}}'
```

- (OPTIONAL) Set your desired domain (replace 127.0.0.1.nip.io to your preferred
  domain):

```bash
kubectl patch configmap/config-domain \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"127.0.0.1.nip.io":""}}'
```

- (OPTIONAL) Deploy a sample hello world app:

```bash
cat <<-EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: helloworld-go
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
        env:
        - name: TARGET
          value: Go Sample v1
EOF
```

- (OPTIONAL) For testing purposes, you can use port-forwarding to make requests
  to Kourier from your machine:

```bash
kubectl port-forward --namespace kourier-system $(kubectl get pod -n kourier-system -l "app=3scale-kourier-gateway" --output=jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") 8080:8080 19000:9000 8443:8443

curl -v -H "Host: helloworld-go.default.127.0.0.1.nip.io" http://localhost:8080
```

## Deployment

By default, the deployment of the Kourier components is split between two
different namespaces:

- Kourier control is deployed in the `knative-serving` namespace
- The kourier gateways are deployed in the `kourier-system` namespace

To change the Kourier gateway namespace, you will need to:

- Modify the files in `config/` and replace all the namespaces fields that have
  `kourier-system` with the desired namespace.
- Set the `KOURIER_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE` env var in the kourier-control deployment
  to the new namespace.

## Features

- Traffic splitting between Knative revisions.
- Automatic update of endpoints as they are scaled.
- Support for gRPC services.
- Timeouts and retries.
- TLS
- External Authorization support.
- Proxy Protocol (AN EXPERIMENTAL / ALPHA FEATURE)
- Traffic Isolation (AN EXPERIMENTAL / ALPHA FEATURE)

## Setup TLS certificate

Create a secret containing your TLS certificate and Private key:

```
kubectl create secret tls ${CERT_NAME} --key ${KEY_FILE} --cert ${CERT_FILE}
```

Add the following env vars to net-kourier-controller in the "kourier" container :

```
CERTS_SECRET_NAMESPACE: ${NAMESPACES_WHERE_THE_SECRET_HAS_BEEN_CREATED}
CERTS_SECRET_NAME: ${CERT_NAME}
```

## External Authorization Configuration

If you want to enable the external authorization support you can set these ENV
vars in the `net-kourier-controller` deployment:

- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_HOST*`: The external authorization service and port,
  my-auth:2222
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_FAILUREMODEALLOW*`: Allow traffic to go through if the ext
  auth service is down. Accepts true/false
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PROTOCOL`: The protocol used to query the ext auth
  service. Can be one of : grpc, http, https. Defaults to grpc
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_MAXREQUESTBYTES`: Max request bytes, if not set, defaults to
  8192 Bytes. More info
  [Envoy Docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ext_authz/v3/ext_authz.proto.html?highlight=max_request_bytes#extensions-filters-http-ext-authz-v3-buffersettings)
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_TIMEOUT`: Max time in ms to wait for the ext authz service.
  Defaults to 2s
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PATHPREFIX`: If `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PROTOCOL` is equal to
  http or https, path to query the ext auth service. Example : if set to
  `/verify`, it will query `/verify/` (**notice the trailing `/`**).
  If not set, it will query `/`.

`*` Required

## Proxy Protocol Configuration
Note: this is an experimental/alpha feature.

To enable proxy protocol feature, run the following command to patch `config-kourier` ConfigMap:
```
kubectl patch configmap/config-kourier \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"enable-proxy-protocol":"true"}}'
```
Ensure that the file was updated successfully:
```
kubectl get configmap config-kourier --namespace knative-serving --output yaml
```
### LoadBalancer configuration:

We need to:
- Use your LB provider annotation to enable proxy-protocol.
- If you are planning to enable autoTLS, use your LB provider annotation to specify a custom name to use for the Load balancer,
  This is used to work around the issue of kube-proxy adding external LB address to node local iptables rule, which will break requests to an LB from in-cluster if the LB is expected to terminate SSL or proxy protocol.
- Change the external Traffic Policy to `local` so the LB we'll preserve the client source IP and avoids a second hop for LoadBalancer.

Example (Scaleway provider):
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: kourier
  namespace: kourier-system
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/scw-loadbalancer-proxy-protocol-v2: '*'
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/scw-loadbalancer-use-hostname: "true"
  labels:
    networking.knative.dev/ingress-provider: kourier
spec:
  ports:
    - name: http2
      port: 80
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8080
    - name: https
      port: 443
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8443
  selector:
    app: 3scale-kourier-gateway
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: LoadBalancer
```


## Traffic Isolation Configuration
Note: this is an experimental/alpha feature.


To enable the traffic isolation feature, run the following command to patch `config-kourier` ConfigMap:
```
kubectl patch configmap/config-kourier \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"traffic-isolation":"port"}}'
```

Ensure that the file was updated successfully:
```
kubectl get configmap config-kourier --namespace knative-serving --output yaml
```

Traffic isolation works by telling the `net-kourier` controller which envoy listener to use for all ingresses
in a given namespace. When reconciling an ingress, the controller looks for the following annotation on the
ingress namespace:

- `kourier.knative.dev/listener-port`: the envoy listener port

## Tips
Domain Mapping is configured to explicitly use `http2` protocol only. This behaviour can be disabled by adding the following annotation to the Domain Mapping resource
```
kubectl annotate domainmapping <domain_mapping_name> kourier.knative.dev/disable-http2=true --namespace <namespace>
```
A good use case for this configuration is `DomainMapping with Websocket`

Note: This annotation is an experimental/alpha feature. There is a known issue such as [issues/821](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/issues/821) and we may change the annotation name in the future.

## License

[Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Allow to configure cipher suites for TLS external listener (#987)
* Allow to configure cipher suites for TLS external listener

This patch adds the new configuration to specify the cipher suites for TLS external listener.

It just specifies the cipher suites via `config-kourier` as:

```
$ kubectl -n "knative-serving" patch configmap/config-kourier \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"cipher-suites":"ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256,ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305"}}'
```

The default uses Envoy's default cipher suites as current behavior.

* probe config

README.md, after:

# Kourier

**[This component is GA](https://github.com/knative/community/tree/main/mechanics/MATURITY-LEVELS.md)**

Kourier is an Ingress for [Knative Serving](https://knative.dev/). Kourier is a
lightweight alternative for the Istio ingress as its deployment consists only of
an Envoy proxy and a control plane for it.

Kourier is passing the knative serving e2e and conformance tests:
[Kourier Testgrid](https://testgrid.knative.dev/serving#kourier-stable).

- [**Getting started**](#getting-started)
- [**Features**](#features)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
- [**Development**](#development)
- [**License**](#license)

## Getting started

- Install Knative Serving, ideally without Istio:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/latest/download/serving-crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/latest/download/serving-core.yaml
```

- Then install Kourier:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/net-kourier/releases/latest/download/kourier.yaml
```

- Configure Knative Serving to use the proper "ingress.class":

```bash
kubectl patch configmap/config-network \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"ingress.class":"kourier.ingress.networking.knative.dev"}}'
```

- (OPTIONAL) Set your desired domain (replace 127.0.0.1.nip.io to your preferred
  domain):

```bash
kubectl patch configmap/config-domain \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"127.0.0.1.nip.io":""}}'
```

- (OPTIONAL) Deploy a sample hello world app:

```bash
cat <<-EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: helloworld-go
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: gcr.io/knative-samples/helloworld-go
        env:
        - name: TARGET
          value: Go Sample v1
EOF
```

- (OPTIONAL) For testing purposes, you can use port-forwarding to make requests
  to Kourier from your machine:

```bash
kubectl port-forward --namespace kourier-system $(kubectl get pod -n kourier-system -l "app=3scale-kourier-gateway" --output=jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") 8080:8080 19000:9000 8443:8443

curl -v -H "Host: helloworld-go.default.127.0.0.1.nip.io" http://localhost:8080
```

## Deployment

By default, the deployment of the Kourier components is split between two
different namespaces:

- Kourier control is deployed in the `knative-serving` namespace
- The kourier gateways are deployed in the `kourier-system` namespace

To change the Kourier gateway namespace, you will need to:

- Modify the files in `config/` and replace all the namespaces fields that have
  `kourier-system` with the desired namespace.
- Set the `KOURIER_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE` env var in the kourier-control deployment
  to the new namespace.

## Features

- Traffic splitting between Knative revisions.
- Automatic update of endpoints as they are scaled.
- Support for gRPC services.
- Timeouts and retries.
- TLS
- Cipher Suite
- External Authorization support.
- Proxy Protocol (AN EXPERIMENTAL / ALPHA FEATURE)
- Traffic Isolation (AN EXPERIMENTAL / ALPHA FEATURE)

## Setup TLS certificate

Create a secret containing your TLS certificate and Private key:

```
kubectl create secret tls ${CERT_NAME} --key ${KEY_FILE} --cert ${CERT_FILE}
```

Add the following env vars to net-kourier-controller in the "kourier" container :

```
CERTS_SECRET_NAMESPACE: ${NAMESPACES_WHERE_THE_SECRET_HAS_BEEN_CREATED}
CERTS_SECRET_NAME: ${CERT_NAME}
```

### Cipher Suites

You can specify the cipher suites for TLS external listener.
To specify the cipher suites you want to allow, run the following command to patch `config-kourier` ConfigMap:

```
kubectl -n "knative-serving" patch configmap/config-kourier \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"cipher-suites":"ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256,ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305"}}'
```

The default uses the default cipher suites of the envoy version.

## External Authorization Configuration

If you want to enable the external authorization support you can set these ENV
vars in the `net-kourier-controller` deployment:

- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_HOST*`: The external authorization service and port,
  my-auth:2222
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_FAILUREMODEALLOW*`: Allow traffic to go through if the ext
  auth service is down. Accepts true/false
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PROTOCOL`: The protocol used to query the ext auth
  service. Can be one of : grpc, http, https. Defaults to grpc
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_MAXREQUESTBYTES`: Max request bytes, if not set, defaults to
  8192 Bytes. More info
  [Envoy Docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ext_authz/v3/ext_authz.proto.html?highlight=max_request_bytes#extensions-filters-http-ext-authz-v3-buffersettings)
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_TIMEOUT`: Max time in ms to wait for the ext authz service.
  Defaults to 2s
- `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PATHPREFIX`: If `KOURIER_EXTAUTHZ_PROTOCOL` is equal to
  http or https, path to query the ext auth service. Example : if set to
  `/verify`, it will query `/verify/` (**notice the trailing `/`**).
  If not set, it will query `/`.

`*` Required

## Proxy Protocol Configuration
Note: this is an experimental/alpha feature.

To enable proxy protocol feature, run the following command to patch `config-kourier` ConfigMap:
```
kubectl patch configmap/config-kourier \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"enable-proxy-protocol":"true"}}'
```
Ensure that the file was updated successfully:
```
kubectl get configmap config-kourier --namespace knative-serving --output yaml
```

### LoadBalancer configuration:

We need to:
- Use your LB provider annotation to enable proxy-protocol.
- If you are planning to enable autoTLS, use your LB provider annotation to specify a custom name to use for the Load balancer,
  This is used to work around the issue of kube-proxy adding external LB address to node local iptables rule, which will break requests to an LB from in-cluster if the LB is expected to terminate SSL or proxy protocol.
- Change the external Traffic Policy to `local` so the LB we'll preserve the client source IP and avoids a second hop for LoadBalancer.

Example (Scaleway provider):
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: kourier
  namespace: kourier-system
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/scw-loadbalancer-proxy-protocol-v2: '*'
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/scw-loadbalancer-use-hostname: "true"
  labels:
    networking.knative.dev/ingress-provider: kourier
spec:
  ports:
    - name: http2
      port: 80
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8080
    - name: https
      port: 443
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 8443
  selector:
    app: 3scale-kourier-gateway
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: LoadBalancer
```


## Traffic Isolation Configuration
Note: this is an experimental/alpha feature.


To enable the traffic isolation feature, run the following command to patch `config-kourier` ConfigMap:
```
kubectl patch configmap/config-kourier \
  -n knative-serving \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data":{"traffic-isolation":"port"}}'
```

Ensure that the file was updated successfully:
```
kubectl get configmap config-kourier --namespace knative-serving --output yaml
```

Traffic isolation works by telling the `net-kourier` controller which envoy listener to use for all ingresses
in a given namespace. When reconciling an ingress, the controller looks for the following annotation on the
ingress namespace:

- `kourier.knative.dev/listener-port`: the envoy listener port

## Tips
Domain Mapping is configured to explicitly use `http2` protocol only. This behaviour can be disabled by adding the following annotation to the Domain Mapping resource
```
kubectl annotate domainmapping <domain_mapping_name> kourier.knative.dev/disable-http2=true --namespace <namespace>
```
A good use case for this configuration is `DomainMapping with Websocket`

Note: This annotation is an experimental/alpha feature. There is a known issue such as [issues/821](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/issues/821) and we may change the annotation name in the future.

## License

[Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE)
